---
layout: default
title: PTSDex
date: 2024-10-09T17:46:19.079Z
description: PTSDex is an interactive digital platform designed to offer a space
  for healing and self-discovery, inspired by "We're Not Really Strangers."
  Through emotionally resonant virtual cards, the game bridges the gap between
  art and therapy, encouraging users to confront and share personal fears and
  traumas in a safe, introspective environment.
imagegallery:
  showgallery: true
  carouselgrid: carousel
  galleryImages: ["/img/cards/addiction.png", "/img/cards/ADHD.png", "/img/cards/bullying.png", "/img/cards/claustro.png", "/img/cards/coulro.png", "/img/cards/depression.png", "/img/cards/ED.png", "/img/cards/emotional-abuse.png", "/img/cards/fatshaming.png", "/img/cards/gentrauma.png", "/img/cards/nycto.png", "/img/cards/physical-abuse.png", "/img/cards/racism.png", "/img/cards/SAD.png", "/img/cards/selfharm.png", "/img/cards/sexual-abuse.png", "/img/cards/street.png", "/img/cards/thanato.png", "/img/cards/war-trauma.png", "/img/cards/xeno.png", "/img/cards/back.png"]
thumbnail: /img/ptsdex_ffhh-copy.png
included: true
promoted: "0"

---
In developing PTSDex, my goal was to create an interactive experience that merges the emotional depth of art with the therapeutic power of introspection. This project involved designing a digital space where users could engage with their emotions through carefully crafted prompts, each presented as a virtual card. Drawing from personal experiences and visual inspirations like Edvard Munch's "The Scream," I aimed to capture the complexities of fear, trauma, and healing.

The design process was deeply influenced by principles of information design, where every element—from the dark, contemplative aesthetic to the animations—was crafted to guide users through their emotional journey. The interface presents two pathways, "Start Game" and "Trigger Warning," allowing users to choose their level of engagement. This careful design ensures inclusivity and safety, allowing users to explore sensitive topics at their own pace.

Technologically, PTSDex leverages Resolume’s REST API to seamlessly integrate animation with user interaction, making each session unique and dynamic. The backend was meticulously structured to synchronize animations and lighting effects, creating an immersive atmosphere that enhances the emotional impact of the game.

PTSDex is more than just a game; it’s a digital sanctuary that represents the convergence of art, technology, and emotional healing. By focusing on user experience and thoughtful design, I aimed to create a platform that not only engages but also supports users in their journey of self-discovery and connection.